Well thank you Marion for doing this interview.
So I'd just like to ask some questions about your life, especially about Caldecott, but I'll start first of all with where were you born?
I was born in Tiverton in Devon in 1938.
And what were your first memories?
I think my first memories of back in those days was having to draw the curtains to keep the light in.
I don't know why, because at that time Tiverton really wasn't under threat, even though we were 15 miles from Exeter.
We never had air raid shelters and I really can't remember anything really happening during the war.
I must have been lived in the land of... what? Ignorance? Bliss? I don't know.
But that's all I can remember and having a gas mask to go to school.
And what about the house that you lived in? What sort of house was it?
It was a three bedroom, what would be termed as a terrace, kind of house, which backed onto fields and had a little stream at the bottom of the garden, which invariably you fell in.
Ideal really, idealic, out in the countryside on the outskirts of Tiverton.
And were you an only child?
No, I'm from a large family.
It was idealic though, even though we were a large family.
And how many were you?
I'm one of 14.
It must have been hard work for your mother.
It was hard work for my mother and my father went to work every day of his life, every day.
And what work was that?
He worked at the quarry at Cove near Bempton, which in those days he didn't go to war because of... I forget what they call it.
It was something like a protected occupation?
Yes, a reserved occupation.
A reserved occupation, so he was in the Home Guard.
And I can remember him telling many a tale about the Home Guard.
And one particular time was they had to share a gun.
Which seems crazy today, but they had to share this one gun and they had a whale of a time up in the hills with the Home Guard.
And it stayed with me to this day.
And so you were in Tiverton, in the town of Tiverton?
Yes.
So what was Tiverton like?
I would say it was quite like Chepstow is at the moment.
A lovely little town.
It had about four churches, town hall, typical little country town.
And split into two.
If you lived up over the hill or you lived beneath the hill.
And it was quite separated like that.
But it was a nice little town.
And which were you, over the hill?
Under the hill.
But it was very nice.
We had parks down there, schools, churches, shops, fine.
And what brought you from Tiverton to Caldecott? And when was that?
1967.
We both worked at that time in the local factory.
But by coming to Lanwin Steelworks, my husband could double his pay for moving 100 odd miles.
So to make a better life, we had two boys at that time.
We came to Caldecott.
My husband to work in the steelworks as an engineer.
And we bought our first house in Shelley Close.
And that was another big adventure.
So that was a big, I know it wasn't that far, 100 odd miles.
But it's still a big step to move away.
It was a really big step because not many people had cars in those days.
And we had to buy a car and a house and keep two little boys.
So it was a big, big move for us at that time.
And with no relatives in the area?
Yes, I had a sister who'd also moved over here about two years before.
So that gave us that little incentive to come, I must say.
So tell us about the house that you moved into.
It was a brand new house in Shelley Close, which we bought for £3,000,
which seemed an awful lot of money.
But it was an end of terrace, lovely little house, really.
But then the following year my daughter came along.
So that made three children.
She was my Welsh gift, I think.
Yes, we lived there until 1997.
And then we moved to Ebbw Road in Caldecott.
At that time, Ebbw Road was on the outskirts of Caldecott.
Well, no houses behind us in Wentwood View or down below in Elam Way.
It was an ideal place to be with the children.
They could run in the fields, go, well, just run.
And today, I'm afraid to say, it's all built up around us.
But that's progress, they say.
So you missed the open countryside?
Because my husband also was born in the countryside, and he loved the fields.
He had a cottage in an idyllic little village called Hemiark.
And he just loved the fields.
So that's progress, or is it?
I don't know.
So tell us about that house, what sort of house it was.
It's a four-bed detached on Ebbw Road.
Sort of house I always look at and think this is a house I would have drawn as a child.
Two windows up, one down, and a door.
And it just reminds me of a house, but I fell in love with it as soon as I saw it.
We moved there, as I say, in about 1997, and we've been there ever since.
And what sort of facilities has the house got, perhaps by comparing it with your childhood?
Well, I think I was quite lucky in Tiverton because we always had an indoor bathroom and toilet.
Always.
In comparison to my husband, where he had to walk 100 yards down the garden to the toilet, I was a spoilt town girl.
We had running water, we had it all.
So really, my childhood wasn't, I can't say, because I loved to go to my auntie who had an outside toilet with a lovely wooden seat.
And we loved to go up that garden because it was so different.
And in the new house, obviously you had all of those facilities.
Oh yes.
Anything more than you had when you were...
Well, just a downstairs cloakroom really, which was a bonus with the children not having to run up the stairs.
A nice big garden, which we didn't have in Shelley Close.
And obviously we still have a nice garden, big garden at the back.
And cooking, kitchen and heating and so on, what sort of facilities have you got?
We've got all facilities, gas, electric, central heating, it's all there.
We had that in Shelley Close actually, so we've been quite lucky.
So when the children were young, and you were a young mother, so what were your social outlets?
Well, when they were really young, it was really just going out to the rugby club, being part of the landworn social.
But really not much social life, a couple of times a year.
We formed a little children's play group back in those days that we had in St Mary's School in the old hall there.
And our children used to go there.
And at what age were they at that time?
Well, Claire would have been about three, and the boys would have been in West End School by then.
And then they moved on to St Mary's School and then on to the college.
And as with the play group, the organisers were volunteers?
Oh yes, yes. Everybody gave a hand, everybody, all the mothers.
I think we used to pay something like 50p to cover the cost of the hall, and that was it at those days.
But I think at that time it must have been one of the first play groups to be established in Cardacot.
And you were a young mother.
So how did you get to know people in the area?
Through the rugby club and through the play group. And that really was my only avenue to go.
And as the children grew older and went to school, did that change?
Not really. Our life has been wound around the rugby club, I've got to say, over the years.
Because my maxim was, well, you're going to play rugby, I'm not staying home.
So we all went to rugby. We all went as a family.
You know, all with a kit on, off we went.
So it was all encompassing. It was daytime activities to watch rugby and presumably a social activity.
Oh yes, yes. Obviously the more you meet parents outside of schools, you meet.
And that circle increases all the time. They were good days.
And which schools did the children go to?
They all started off in West End and then to St Mary's in Church Road and then to the Comp.
And stayed in Cardacot schools all the way through?
Yes, yes.
So turning to the Cardacot town or village as it was, can you describe how it was, how you remember it when you first came?
Yeah, it was rather ramshackled as I remember.
The better side of the street was where Grimmers the Electric shop used to be.
But Washburns had a garage and things on the pavement and you could buy most things.
Shop across the road. The mace shop, as I remember.
There's a grocery down the bottom and you could buy furniture upstairs.
Adam's shop round the corner was like Aladdin's cave.
You wanted it, you could get it in Adam's shop. So that was fine.
So did you have to go outside of Cardacot to shop in those days?
Not really. No, you could get your groceries, you could get clothes.
As far as I'm aware, very rarely did we have to travel to Newport. Very rarely.
And did you find that while shopping in Cardacot you would meet people you knew?
Oh yes. The village, like walking through the village, it's like walking through friends.
Everyone speaks to you and that's how you get to know.
Through your children mostly, in schools and what they do, whatever activities they did as children, you joined in.
And how have you seen it change over those years? Quite a few years of course.
Well it has changed. I mean it was rebuilt, if you like, way back.
Not necessarily for the better because a lot of the small shops went.
Because people then became more travelled, they all got cars and went to Newport.
So really the big supermarkets killed the village. That little closeness that you could go down.
Living in West End mostly, the Co-op has been there forever. Clarks of Bookchis was there.
You really didn't need to go any further. But if you wanted other things you came up into the village.
And you knew you would get it somewhere. Little dress shops were there. And it was all there.
And the children's shopping, clothes, that sort of thing?
Well I'm sure I must have bought it. Because I couldn't drive at that time.
And my husband would have taken the car to work. So I must have bought their clothes.
Because there was no computer, no shopping by computer or whatever you call it. Online. None of that.
So I must have got their clothes in the village. Adams's I think. Was the shop?
Marjory's.
Marjory's, yeah.
So school uniforms?
Adams's, you got that. Or either in the school at that time.
I don't think they were as particular about school uniform back then as they are today.
And I think school uniform is good.
So you said in the school, I mean I guess, the comprehensive school. So they supplied uniforms?
Yes, you could buy it all in the school.
So was it a shop?
I suppose it must have been. Must have been.
Or Adams's sold what you required. Used to buy things like rugby shirts, ties.
I'm sure I must have bought blazers in Adams's. Must have. Shirts.
So when the children were growing up and became teenagers, so what was their, how did they exercise their social life?
What were the places they went to and enjoy?
There wasn't much, was there, really. There wasn't anywhere for them to go.
When the leisure centre opened up, then yes they could go there.
But really there was nowhere for the children to go. Nowhere.
And you just had to trust that if they went out they wouldn't get into any mischief.
Obviously like my daughter went to girl guides and things, well that was like a little bit social for her.
But looking back there was nowhere for my sons to go except rugby training.
So it was very poor for social.
Because they're looking to do more social things these days.
Whereas in my day you'd sit on the pavement and you'd all sit around under the lamp and you'd talk.
Until that lamp went out and indoors you had to go.
So although things have changed today, and I think children today are so lucky because they can do anything they want.
Anything. And it's there for them. Just grab it.
What about the school? Were there any social activities associated with the school?
Any clubs? Any dances? Anything like that?
Not a lot. Probably the school had the disco. But no, not a lot.
That wasn't a frequent...
Not at all, no.
So how did they meet when the time came, boyfriends and girlfriends, how did they meet?
Do you know, I have no idea. I suppose in the village they would... school maybe?
I really don't know how they would meet each other.
The only place they could go would be to a local pub at that time. I really don't know.
Would they have gone outside of Caldecott when they were teenagers?
No, because there was no transport, no buses. No. They wouldn't have even gone to Chepster. So it was all local.
So bringing us more up to date, so how do you think it's changed since those years when the children were younger to now?
Well it's not changed a lot because the leisure centre, fine, but you can't get into the leisure centre unless you've booked something months in advance.
There is a youth club, I don't know how successful that is, and that's it as far as I see. I see children still hanging around the library.
Has that got any better? I don't think so. But what do children want? What do they want? Be entertained all the time? I don't know.
And again bringing us up to date as far as what is now a town, of course. So how has that changed?
In the shopping area, how would you see the changes that have taken place there?
Well, if you like charity shops, hairdressers, you've got plenty of that. Betting shops, yes.
No, it's not changed for the better. I'm quite sure of that.
And it's a vicious circle because people shop online. The big stores have taken the heart of the village away as it has most places.
So you don't really want to go to the village. The bank is gone. It's just fading away slowly.
And why do you think that has happened?
Well, I think people have become more mobile, more cars, or you can get to Newport easily, spitty, everything you could want.
And online shopping again. You just pick up your device and off you go. Easy.
And how do you see the future? How do you think it's going to develop in the future?
Well, unless they make room for more specialist little shops in Cardacombe. It makes it viable for them to come here. I can't see it.
And what sort of things, changes would be needed to make it more viable?
That's a million dollar question, isn't it? What do you want? What do you want? Progress? Is this progress? I don't think so. I don't think so.
So turning to your own social life now at this stage, what are your social outlets? And how do you meet your friends now?
Well, the U3A. I have so many friends in the U3A, through the walking group, the history, all groups. I think after being a member for so long, I think most people know me.
So it's good. And in fact, my sister was over the other day and went to the village and her comment was, people speak to you. And she found that really refreshing.
So you mentioned the walking group. Are there other groups that you?
I like the history. I like to go to history and gardening. And that's all time allows me to do at the moment.
So tell me about the history society. What sort of things does it provide for you?
Well, it provides me with a lot of knowledge, to get a lot of knowledge about Welsh history. As an English person, I know very little.
So by going to the history, I can find out a lot more about Welsh history. And that's quite fascinating to me.
I've just always liked history, whether it's English or Welsh actually. And just that. I'm fascinated by what's gone on in the past.
Satisfies your curiosity.
I must be a very curious person, I think. Yes.
And the gardening club, what does that offer?
That offers you, not gardening with tools, but actually seeing houses, wonderful gardens, gardens you can visit.
And it gives you some ideas. And you have demonstrations of how to cultivate your garden. So it brings a lightness into your life.
And where do these events take place?
Well, various club huts, halls, the history in the luncheon centre, the gardening in the cub hut, walking. Of course you're out in the countryside, wonderful.
And the gardens that you visit, where have you been?
Oh, goodness me, there are too many to number.
What are two examples you can think of?
Dufferin Gardens down in Cardiff. We've just been to Southport Flower Show.
Margam Abbey, we've been walking in the gardens there, that's very nice these days.
Actually at this moment of time there's too many for me to remember.
Heavyslick?
Sorry?
Heavyslick we've been to.
Yes, so many.
And how is that organised?
Yes, that's organised by the conveners of the gardening group. So they are very popular.
And they provide transport?
Yes, it's all provided for. Same as the special events, it's organised for you to go. And it's easy for people who maybe don't have that facility to do on their own. It's very popular.
And have you taken a role yourself in the U3A?
I have. I've been on the committee, I've been vice chairman, I've been convener of the walking group. And at this moment of time we've just reorganised the history and I'm going to become treasurer of the history.
And if you were to make some summary points or to say something about things I haven't asked about, is there anything you'd like to say about your life here in Caldecott?
My life here has been very pleasant. I can't say that I wanted to, or we said I'd go back to Tiverton, but no, I know an awful lot of people here, lots of friends, and we've had a good life.
Well thank you for that interview.